README.md, before:

# gosyncit

The aim of this project is to explore file handling in go, alongside a cobra/viper-based CLI. Only a very basic file system abstraction is used. Functionality for the local file system is extended by a platform-independent tool to mirror files via SFTP (e.g. no rsync available on the SFTP server). Anyways, let's go sync it.

## installation

This assumes the [go toolchain](https://go.dev) to be installed:

```sh
go install github.com/FObersteiner/gosyncit@latest
```

## usage

#### mirror A &#8594; B

Write files to destination if source is newer or file size doesn't match, only keep files that exist in source (see flags).

```
Usage:
  gosyncit mirror [flags]

Aliases:
  mirror, mi

Flags:
  -n, --dryrun       show what will be done
  -x, --dirty        do not remove anything from dst that is not found in source
  -s, --skiphidden   skip hidden files
  -v, --verbose      verbose output to the command line
  -h, --help         help for mirror

Global Flags:
      --config string   config file (default is $HOME/.gosyncit.toml)
```

#### sync A &#8596; B

Ensure source and destination have the same content, keep only the newest version of any file.

```
Usage:
  gosyncit sync [flags]

Aliases:
  sync, sy

Flags:
  -n, --dryrun       show what will be done
  -s, --skiphidden   skip hidden files
  -v, --verbose      verbose output to the command line
  -h, --help         help for sync

Global Flags:
      --config string   config file (default is $HOME/.gosyncit.toml)
```

---

## Notes

Directory tree traversal is always recursive. There is no option to just copy/mirror/sync the top-level directory.

### file comparison quirks

- Test for equality is currently (v0.0.6) only done by comparing modification timestamp (mtime) and size (in bytes). Theoretically, if two files have the same name, mtime and size, they will be considered 'identical' although their _content_ could be different. To prevent this incorrect result, a byte-wise comparison ('deep-equal') would be needed if the basic comparison says 'equal'
- timestamp comparison granularity is _microseconds_ at the moment (see `lib/compare/compare.go`, `BasicUnequal`). Nanosecond granularity was causing issues if a file was copied to a remote server.
- `sync`, `mirror`: if two files with the same name and path also have the same mtime in source and destination, then the content of the source will take prevalence (i.e. will copied to destination)

### not implemented

- follow symlinks
- inclusion / exclusion lists (regex)
- see also the [issues on github](https://github.com/FObersteiner/gosyncit/issues)

Commit message:

Dev into Master  (#18)
* update readme

* update readme

* make default for dry-run false

* make default for dry-run false, prepare to skip hidden files

* implement ignore-hidden as flag for sync

* bump version

* update readme and changelog

* file timestamp comparison granularity

* update readme

* update readme

* Update README.md

* go mod use full project name

* update readme

* add test for skip hidden feature

* mirror : draft 'skiphidden'

* next version

* prepare test

* revise cmd tests

* revise readme

* update changelog

* update demo config

* sync must only compare mtime

* add mtime after comparison, make comp time granularity a const

* revise test

* update changelog, bump version

* add verbose flag to sync

* not clean is dirty

* implement verboseprint

* prepare next version

* update cmd help

* draft sftp sync

* add basic sftp functionality

* update go mod

* silence usage on error

* bump version, add flag

* file transfer working

* lib tweaks

* update changelog

* update readme

* update readme

* cleanup

* actual mirror code to wrapper func

* chtimes not working

* happy path

* make time granularity a var

* add reverse func (remote to local)

README.md, after:

# gosyncit

The aim of this project is to explore directory mirror / sync in go, alongside a cobra/viper-based CLI. Since v0.0.13 extended by a platform-independent tool to mirror / sync files via SFTP (e.g. no rsync available on the SFTP server).

## installation

Assumes the [go toolchain](https://go.dev) to be installed:

```sh
go install github.com/FObersteiner/gosyncit@latest
```

## usage

### local storage

#### mirror A &#8594; B

Write files to destination if source is newer or file size doesn't match, only keep files that exist in source (see flags).

```
Usage:
  gosyncit mirror 'src' 'dst' [flags]

Aliases:
  mirror, mi

Flags:
  -n, --dryrun       show what will be done
  -x, --dirty        do not remove anything from destination that is not found in source
  -s, --skiphidden   skip hidden files
  -v, --verbose      verbose output to the command line
  -h, --help         help for mirror

Global Flags:
      --config string   config file (default is $HOME/.gosyncit.toml)
```

#### sync A &#8596; B

Ensure source and destination have the same content, keep only the newest version of any file.

```
Usage:
  gosyncit sync 'src' 'dst' [flags]

Aliases:
  sync, sy

Flags:
  -n, --dryrun       show what will be done
  -s, --skiphidden   skip hidden files
  -v, --verbose      verbose output to the command line
  -h, --help         help for sync

Global Flags:
      --config string   config file (default is $HOME/.gosyncit.toml)
```

### local storage to SFTP and vice versa

tbd

## Notes

Directory tree traversal is always recursive. There is no option to just copy/mirror/sync the top-level directory.

### file comparison quirks

- Test for equality is only done by comparing modification timestamp (mtime) and size (n bytes). Theoretically, if two files have the same name, mtime and size, they will be considered 'identical' although their _content_ could be different. To prevent this incorrect result, a byte-wise comparison ('deep-equal') would be needed if the basic comparison says 'equal'
- timestamp comparison granularity is _microseconds_ at the moment (see `lib/compare/compare.go`, `BasicUnequal`). Nanosecond granularity was causing issues if a file was copied to a remote server. Windows only supports precision down to a period of 100 ns.
- `sync`, `mirror`: if two files with unequal size but the same name and path also have the same mtime in source and destination, then the content of the source will take prevalence (i.e. will copied to destination)

### not implemented

- follow symlinks
- inclusion / exclusion lists, regex patterns etc.
- see also: [issues](https://github.com/FObersteiner/gosyncit/issues)
